Let's just quickly look at what it
looks like to concat a couple of
functors together.
So if I have a write of Hello,
concat it with array of world.
I shall have rows that
fold log console.log.
I should have a write of or
I will just get
hello world because I'm folding it out.
But what it is is actually
a write of Hello world.
Does everybody see that?
What if I have a left of
ahhhrgghghhhh [LAUGH].
Does anybody have a guess of what's gonna
happen here given either's behaviour?
>> Just to get a left.
>> That's right.
It will short circuit everything.
If you hit a left anywhere in
this giant associative concat,
if we're gonna fold a giant list of
left's or rights a bunch of ethers.
If you hit a left,
it's just going to return that as an error
like, we got an error we better tell you.
So let's see that.
I got our.
So that's pretty neat.
We can do this with task,
right, task of Hello
cat task of, cruel world.
And then we can forge that.
And then we'll still get in parallel in,
we're saying we have two tasks.
They're both running,
they're both gonna finish.
They're both doing a sync things and
when you're done, concat the results.
What if we put that in an array
instead of concating the string.
You can concat the array inside the task,
right?
So that gives us different behavior.
But it's still concating and so then
we can, we have a right of an array and
we have a left or whatever.
If we have a rejected task.
Rejected, it acts like left.
So if any of the tasks fail, oops,
these aren't the same data type and
that's fine because this is a different
output should just give you
the error on the task if
you have a rejected task.
So that way if you're out there
running a bunch of a sync stuff and
one of them fails,
you'll get that back as the the answer.
It won't concat, so very much like
right or left behavior there.
There's more but I want to stop here for
any questions on what we're doing.
[LAUGH] yeah.
>> Is this the same behavior promise.all,
where we have a single
failure in the chain and
the result is just, it's discarded.
>> That's right,
if we have a single failure now, we'll
talk about what to do here in a second.
I'll do that next.
If we want to be a little
bit more lenient on that.
But, that is exactly and
it's kind of interesting.
If you think about promise.all,
you're saying I have a bunch of
promises that are running in a list.
And really what I want at the end is,
instead of a list of promises,
a promise of a list, and we can think
of that in terms of traversable.
We could say like flip the list on
the outside of the promise or vice versa.
And there we go,
we get a bunch of results in one promise
instead of a list of a bunch of promises.
Here, we're saying,
I want to actually fold all those down.
I wanna take this list of promises and
I wanna combine them all and
it's the same exact effect.
So what's happening here is, but
it's a little bit more powerful, right?
Because we're not just
gonna get a list and
we're gonna concat them
however we see fit.
So you can frame your problem in terms
of monads, almost always, it's like
the closest thing to a silver bullet in
functional programming as you can get.
To quote Chris Penner [LAUGH].
So let's attack that case of,
all right, I'm programming.
I'm gonna combine a bunch of stuff.
And while I'm combining, I would rather,
let's see, we're reading a bunch of files.
And all my files I want to,
if one is missing and
it blows up,
I just want to discard it, right?
So we can say,
we have our try catch here that returns
us the read file sync or whatever.
And this is gonna return us a right or
left.
And I don't want it to just short circuit
it if I'm reading a whole bunch of files
and I'm concting all their contents,
I don't want it to just
stop if I hit an error.
I just want it to be graceful and
just forget about it.
That's graceful but,
[LAUGH] forget about it.
So let's go ahead and do this.
Let's say, well, instead of right
combining with another right or
left, there you go and
give me a left or buy.
I'm gonna, I want to keep the right.
So we can do this a couple different ways.
There's an interface called
alternative the captures choice.
Mono is capture choice, right?
You can say maximum right is a monoid,
where you can keep one or
the other identity being infinity or
negative infinity.
But the idea of the interface of
alternative is that we're gonna choose
this or that one.
But we can do this with semigroups by
saying or monoids by saying, let's just
make, let's just wrap it in another type,
let's call it alternative.
All right, so we have this alternative.
And this is gonna be holding
an either x not just an x, all right.
The jewel is called ex to remind us, and
we'll concat that by saying,
all right, well, let's just cheat.
If it is the left, I know they have
that function on my either class.
We will end up keeping the other one or
I guess us.
Because if we are left and they are left,
it really doesn't matter
which left we keep, right?
We're just gonna keep the first one,
so skip ourselves.
So, are we, can keep, oops, this is other.
So if the other one is left,
let's just keep ourselves otherwise,
we're going to say let's say
ex.concat other.ex, put that all
into inside an alternative, right?
Because we can't ever, it's closed,
we shouldn't ever escape in a concat.
That's the first thing you should do.
Whenever you're ready to concat functions,
make sure you're not falling out of
the type, because that is error,
like what just happened.
So let me see if my logic is correct.
If we've got a left over here,
we're gonna keep it.
It does, we're gonna keep ourselves.
Otherwise, we're going
to concat the insides.
Now we can actually decide whether or
not to concat the insides of the two or
just keep the outer one, right,
we can keep the first success.
So these are choices that
are still satisfy the interface.
But in keeping with the kind of
intuition of these functor monoids,
we're gonna concat the insides of the two.
See if I get this right, I may not have,
if anybody sees any problems shout it out.
We got off the program
it's a anybody's guess.
So get this x out of there and
folde ID, all right.
Add by blue where
we got can't read is
left of the other one.
That's because I don't have
an alternative here, to alternative
All right, so, how's that?
Okay, so it keeps the high, cool.
What if I concat an alternative of
this with concat an alternative?
Another bunch of explanations.
Now concat at that with the by,
hey, did it, right.
And so every,
it just ignores the left here it doesn't,
it doesn't do anything, which is nice.
So if we're taking advantage of these kind
of like this cascading kind of nesting,
where everything concats down, at some
point in the nesting you can say, you know
what, I'm not going to continue to concat
inward and be a nice nested citizen.
I'm going to make a decision here and
choose one or
the other kind of branch
my code effectively.
Or I can do both as we're doing here,
we're only going to concat
the inside if it's a right.
I want to rewrite this as a fold
map real quick and then we'll jump
into some exercises and we'll come back
and build a little validation library.
But, yeah, so I want you to get some
more experience with full map here.
Turns out, this is a lot of code, right?
It's kind of annoying.
So what we could do is, I'm gonna
go ahead and put this into a list.
They have my list don't get from
the first thing and just import it, okay?
So we'll have a list of Hi.
And how would
just a, b,c.
And what we're gonna do is put
those I guess we can't do that.
We have to do a right a, right b,
and a right of c, okay, left of c.
And now we'll just go ahead and
foldMap into alternative and
we can choose just like reduce
to ignore the initial value.
But oftentimes at the calling site,
you know what the initial value is.
So you want to keep it safe and
provide initial value.
So my initial value,
if I have a bunch of strings my
empty element is an empty string.
And either my empty element is a right and
or
I guess my neutral and
then alternative holding that.
So we'll fold map all these
into an alternative and
then hopefully this will work.
And we got a and b,
it concats the insides, hooray.
It works.
If I make this left here,
we'll get a and c.
So you'll end up actually making
your own monoids quite a bit.
But the idea is that you'll
end up making your own monoids
a lot more than you are gonna
make your own fanctors and such.
So there, it's good to know
how to make these things.
And of course you can
make it with a class.
You don't have to make it
in these little functions,
you can make it more efficient or
whatever.
There's a dozen ways to do it.
Okay, so let's go to.
>> Following your pattern you would make
like an MD and that would be a right?
>> That, yeah, you'd create a, if you want
to make a monoid you have to have concat.
And for semigroup,
you just have to define a concat method
empty is like a class method usually,
because why would you have an instance
if it is an instance of that class.
So usually that's why I'm kind of
putting empty on the class itself.
So that way it gives me my
initial value of whatever.
So there we go.